This week, we learned
all about policies,
value functions, and
the relationships between them.
We also learned about
Bellman equations which help
us reason about
the value of policies.
In this video, we'll do
a quick recap of
everything we covered.
Policies tell an agent
how to behave.
Deterministic policies map
each state to an action.
Each time a state is visited,
a deterministic policy selects
the associated action Pi of
S. Stochastic policies map
each state to a distribution
over all possible actions.
Each time state is visited,
a stochastic policy
randomly draws
an action from the
associated distribution with
probability Pi of A given
S. A policy by
definition depends only
on the current state.
It cannot depend on things
like time or previous states.
This is best thought of as
a restriction on
the state, not the agent.
The state should
provide the agent with
all the information it needs
to make a good decision.
This is an important assumption
for many of the techniques
in reinforcement learning.
Value functions are like magic.
Value functions capture
the future total reward
under a particular policy.
We discussed two kinds of
value functions:
state value functions,
and action value functions.
The state value function gives
the expected return from
the current state under a policy.
The action value function
gives the expected return from
state S if the agent
first selects
actions A and follows
Pi after that.
Value functions simplify
things by aggregating
many possible future returns
into a single number.
Bellman equations define
a relationship
between the value of
a state or state-action pair
and its successor states.
The Bellman equation for
the state value function
gives the value of
the current state as
a sum over the values
of all the successor states,
and immediate rewards.
The Bellman equation
for the action value
function gives the value of
a particular state-action pair
as the sum over
the values of all possible next
state-action pairs and rewards.
The Bellman equations
can be directly
solved to find
the value function.
These Bellman equations
help us evaluate policies,
but they do not yet
achieve our ultimate goal,
to find a policy that attains
as much reward as possible.
To make this goal more precise,
we defined optimal policies,
the optimal value function,
and the associated Bellman's
optimality equations.
An optimal policy is
a policy which achieves
the highest value
possible in every state.
There's always
at least one optimal policy,
but there may be more than one.
The optimal state value
function is equal to
the highest possible value
in every state.
Every optimal policy shares
the same optimal
state value function.
The same is true for
optimal action value functions
and optimal policies.
Like all value functions,
the optimal value functions
have Bellman equations.
These Bellman equations do not
reference a specific policy.
This amounts to replace
in the policy in
the Bellman equation with
a max over all actions.
The optimal policy must always
select the best available action.
We can extract the optimal policy
from the optimal
state value function.
But to do so, we also need
the one-step dynamics of the MDP.
We can get the
optimal policy with
much less work if we have
the optimal action
value function.
We simply select the action with
the highest value in each state.
Next week, we will
see how to compute
optimal policies using
these Bellman equations.
See you then.